# MECH2700-Computational-Mechanics
This project computes the trajectory of a projectile when accounting for drag (can only be solved numerically). The attached pdf file outlines the task that this code was developed for.

The problem requires the trajectory of a bread roll to be computed using equations of motion and coding for zero drag and non-zero drag cases. The code produced calculates the optimal conditions (angle and velocity) for the bread roll to just clear the master's house, as outlined in the task sheet. 

The code submitted for the problem covers all tasks in the one program. The global parameters and initial conditions are specified at the beginning and have been used throughout. The drag force and the x and y equations of motion were then made into functions. By creating empty lists to store the x and y displacement values, a function which computes the trajectory of the bread roll was defined using a while loop which terminates the program once y < 0 (when roll hits ground) and stores the x and y values after each time increment. The next part of the program defines the analytic trajectory function for the zero drag case. The results are printed in the kernel and can be compared to the numerical solution using the trajctory function. 

Multiple time-steps were then tested after computing the analytic solution using a drag coefficient of 0.5. These were printed in the kernel and can be analysed. An optimum condition function was then defined using a similar method as what was used in the trajectory function. However, an if statement was implemented which can also terminate the function if the bread roll hits the top of the house. This can be effectively used to determine  accurate optimal conditions. Just before this function, the values for the initial velocity and angle can be altered for testing. The function was then plotted for the optimal case using the in-built pylab functions and shows how the trajectory just clears the house.
